+++
date = "2007-07-30T12:21:37+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Are you suffering from **knowing it all**?"
categories = ["General"]
slug = "67"
+++

**NUMBER ONE LEARNING PROBLEM: KNOWING IT ALL**

Do you know  someone who knows everything there is to know about something? Do you know  someone who believes he or she is the world's greatest expert ina subject? Do  you know people who think they know it all?

If so, you know the first  reason why someone cannot learn."You cannot study a subject if you think you  know all about it to begin with."A student who thinks he knows all there is to  know about a subject will not be able to learn anything in it."A person might  already be familiar with a subject from previous experience and, having had  success in that field, now has the idea that he knows all aboutit."

"With  that obstacle in the way, one can become completely bogged down in his studies  and not make forward progress."This is true for a student of any subject." -- L.  Ron Hubbard (bogged: hindered or slowed).

**SYMPTOMS OF "KNOWING IT  ALL"**
* When you think you know all about a subject, you cannot learn anything else  about it. Instead of learning, you say things like:"I don't need to take this  class. I know all about this. I'm getting out of here."
* "I could give a better lecture than that guy! What a waste of my time. I'm  taking a nap.""Whoever wrote this article should have asked me for my opinion; I  know more than her!"
* However, if you come to realize that no one knows everything about a topic,  you can then learn something new. If you admit to yourself that you do not  knowit all, you can improve your knowledge and skill in that subject. You open a  door to new knowledge.

**HOW TO HANDLE "KNOWING IT ALL"**

Try this exercise in a subject about which you feel you know everything there  is to know.

* Find an article you have not read on that subject.
* Before reading the article, say to yourself, "I already know everything  about this subject."
* Read a few sentences of the article. Are you learning anything?

Next, change your attitude so you can agree with one of these statements:

* "I'd better read this to make sure I already know everything."
* "Maybe I can actually learn something new in this article."
* "If there's anything new in this field, I'd better hurry and learn it."
* "To make sure I know more than everyone else, I'll read this article."
* "My mind actually has room for more knowledge!"

Try reading the article now. Are you learning anything?Ask anyone who is  wildly successful and they will confirm they do not know it all. But they do  know a thirst for knowledge is essential to success.

Be thirsty this week!

PS: I didn't write this article. I found it in an email and I thought it  would be great to share with you all.
