+++
date = "2008-01-10T11:46:46+01:00"
draft = false
title = "What is RTFM?"
categories = ["General"]
slug = "11"
+++

<p>RTFM stands for &quot;Read The Fucking Manual&quot;. This is the story for you&#8230; </p>
	<p>========================================================================</p>
	<div>One day a Novice came to the Master.<br />&quot;Master,&quot; he said, &quot;How is it that I may become a Writer of Programs?&quot;.<br />The Master looked solemnly at the Novice.<br />&quot;Have you in your possession a Compiler of Source Code?&quot; the Master asked.<br />&quot;No,&quot; replied the Novice. The Master sent the Novice on a quest to the Store of Software.</p>
	<p>Many hours later the Novice returned.<br />&quot;Master,&quot; he said, &quot;How is it that I may become a Writer of Programs?&quot;.<br />The Master looked solemnly at the Novice.<br />&quot;Have you in your possession a Compiler of Source Code?&quot; the Master asked.<br />&quot;Yes,&quot; replied the Novice.<br />The Master frowned at the Novice.<br />&quot;You have a Compiler of Source. What now can prevent you from becoming a Writer of Programs?&quot;.<br />The Novice fidgeted nervously and presented his Compiler of Source to the Master.<br />&quot;How is this used?&quot; asked the Novice.<br />&quot;Have you in your possession a Manual of Operation?&quot; the Master asked.<br />&quot;No,&quot; replied the Novice.<br />The Master instructed the Novice as to where he could find the Manual of Operation.</p>
	<p>Many days later the Novice returned.<br />&quot;Master,&quot; he said, &quot;How is it that I may become a Writer of Programs?&quot;.<br />The Master looked solemnly at the Novice.<br />&quot;Have you in your possession a Compiler of Source Code?&quot; the Master asked.<br />&quot;Yes,&quot; replied the Novice.<br />&quot;Have you in your possession a Manual of Operation?&quot; the Master asked.<br />&quot;Yes,&quot; replied the Novice.<br />The Master frowned at the Novice.<br />&quot;You have a Compiler of Source, and a Manual of Operation. What now can prevent you from becoming a Writer of Programs?&quot;.</p>
	<p>At this the Novice fidgeted nervously and presented his Manual of Operations to the Master.<br />&quot;How is this used?&quot; asked the Novice.<br />The Master closed his eyes, and heaved a great sigh.<br />The Master sent the Novice on a quest to the School of Elementary.</p>
	<p>Many years later the Novice returned.<br />&quot;Master,&quot; he said, &quot;How is it that I may become a Writer of Programs?&quot;.<br />The Master looked solemnly at the Novice.<br />&quot;Have you in your possession a Compiler of Source Code, a Manual of Operation and an Education of Elementary?&quot; the Master asked.<br />&quot;Yes,&quot; replied the Novice.<br />The Master frowned at the Novice.<br />&quot;What then can prevent you from becoming a Writer of Programs?&quot;.</p>
	<p>The Novice fidgeted nervously. He looked around but could find nothing to present to the Master.<br />The Master smiled at the Novice.<br />&quot;I see what problem plagues you.&quot; said the Master.<br />&quot;Oh great master, please tell me.&quot; asked the Novice.</p>
	<p>The Master turned the Novice toward the door, and with a supportive hand on his shoulder said, &quot;Go young Novice, and Read The Fucking Manual.&quot; And so the Novice became enlightened.</div>
	<div />
<div>========================================================================</div>
	<div />
<div>Well people, this is not my creation. I read it on some site and thought it was nice enough to share with you all.</div>
