+++
date = "2010-10-20T15:48:25+02:00"
draft = false
title = "A very compelling Sri Ram Bhajan"
categories = ["Anthropology"]
slug = "310"
+++

<p>There has been times in our lives when we try to seek support, commitment, satisfaction, love, peace and all kinds of good feelings. There are times when life seems utterly hopeless, negative, not-worth-living, throw-away, wasted and all kinds of depressive ideas and feelings over power us. I have also suffered from/in such times and at times it is hard to relax and/or do anything useful/simulating which can have a positive effect to get oneself out of that particular mood. At times like those, I listen to my favorite Sri Ram Bhajan. It does not matter what you are and what you believe in. It is the tune and the words and the meaning behind them which makes the Bhajan so special. Listening to it will be very helpful and reciting it will be awesome. I am happy to share it with you. You can find it at: </p>  <table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="2" width="400"><tbody>     <tr>       <td valign="top" width="280">         <div style="padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; display: inline; float: none; padding-top: 0px" id="scid:5737277B-5D6D-4f48-ABFC-DD9C333F4C5D:d71f803e-d7eb-4bc9-a790-7bf93675f1c7" class="wlWriterEditableSmartContent"><div><object width="425" height="355"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/Z8bbJiQjz_A&amp;hl=en"></param><embed src="http://www.youtube.com/v/Z8bbJiQjz_A&amp;hl=en" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="425" height="355"></embed></object></div></div>       </td>        <td valign="top" width="120">         <div style="padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px auto; padding-left: 0px; width: 425px; padding-right: 0px; display: block; float: none; padding-top: 0px" id="scid:5737277B-5D6D-4f48-ABFC-DD9C333F4C5D:96c78880-2464-4220-b7c0-ca154472a34c" class="wlWriterEditableSmartContent"><div><object width="425" height="355"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/wHir6W6HOPs&amp;hl=en"></param><embed src="http://www.youtube.com/v/wHir6W6HOPs&amp;hl=en" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="425" height="355"></embed></object></div></div>       </td>     </tr>   </tbody></table>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p>The first one is the original bhajan (at least the first one I heard) sung by Sharma brothers. The other link is to a more recent version sung by Anup Jalota. Both are excellent versions. For those who do not understand Hindi/Urdu, I will try to write rough translations. There will be mistakes and stuff but I still hope the essence is captured in them.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <blockquote>   <p>Jaise Suraj ki garmi se jalte hue tan ko mil jaye taruvar ki chaya</p>    <p>Aisa hi sukh mere man ko mila hai main jabse sharan teri aaya, mere Ram (2)</p> </blockquote>  <p>The first para talks about a very interesting concept. It says that as a body/individual feels relaxed from the burning heat of the sun, there is a similar feeling to my mind when I came into your embrace my (Lord) Ram. This line is so true especially if you have lived in a hot place like India where it easily reaches 45 during summers. I still remember the days when I was just lying beneath a tree in the hot sun and enjoying the cool breeze. A similar effect is experienced when one devotes himself to the one.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <blockquote>   <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Bhatka hua mera man tha koi, mil na raha tha sahara</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Lahero se ladti hui naav ko jaise, mil na raha ho kinaara (2)</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Us ladkhadati hui naav ko jo kisine kinara dikhaya</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Aisa hi sukh mere man ko mila hai main jabse sharan teri aaya, mere Ram (2)</font></p> </blockquote>  <p>The second para is quite intriguing. It says that, my mind is all disturbed and out of place and I don’t get any help/refuge from such a constant pain. The situation is similar to a boat which has lost its way in the middle of a storm and is fighting its way through the waves in search of the bank/safe ground/harbor. When such a boat reaches the shores because someone showed the way, I also feel happiness of similar levels when I submit myself to you my (Lord) Ram.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <blockquote>   <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Sheetal bane aag chandan ke jaisi, Raghav krupa ho jo teri</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Ujiyali poonam ki ho jaye rate, jo thi amavas andheri (2)</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Yug yug se pyasi madhur bhumi ne jaise saavan ka sandesh paya</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Aisa hi sukh mere man ko mila hai main jabse sharan teri aaya, mere Ram (2)</font></p> </blockquote>  <p>The fire within will turn into the coolness of Sandalwood, if Raghav (another name of Sri Ram) blesses. Similarly, the dark no moon nights can transform into full moon nights showering us with cool silver light. It is as if a dried up land is given the news of the approaching monsoon, I also feel happiness of similar levels when I submit myself to you my (Lord) Ram.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <blockquote>   <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Jis raah ki manzil pe tera milan ho, us par kadam main badhau</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Phoolo mein khalo mein, patjhad baharo mein, main na kabhi damagau (2)</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Pani ke pyase ko takdir ne jaise ji bhar ke amrit pilaya</font></p>    <p><font style="background-color: #ffffff">Aisa hi sukh mere man ko mila hai main jabse sharan teri aaya, mere Ram (2)</font></p> </blockquote>  <p>I pray that I walk on the path which will allow me to meet you (you being the almighty here) or more specifically, will allow me to blend with the almighty. While walking on this path, I am not disturbed/made unstable by flowers, thorns, autumn (signifying depressiveness/darkness), spring (signifying light/happiness). It is as if a person who is thirsty has been allowed to drink elixir (amrit) by luck, I also feel happiness of similar levels when I submit myself to you my (Lord) Ram.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p>I really feel so relaxed after listening and reciting this bhajan that I feel obliged to share the same secret keys to eternal bliss. May Sri Ram be with you!</p>
