+++
date = "2015-01-27T17:32:02+01:00"
draft = false
title = "2014 Retrospective!"
categories = ["General"]
slug = "1038"
+++

<p>Year 2014 was very interesting for me both professionally and personally. It had its own ups and downs. Today I want to retrospect on 2014 and important things that happened around me!</p> <p>2014 started with an exciting CES in LA where demos with M7450 and SLSI 44xx were shown. Proud to mention that I had been very heavily involved with the bridge implementation on SLSI 44xx and M7450. And in Feb 2014, I was in Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona with Ericsson modems business showing 5 different demos ranging from global device to carrier aggregation (CA) to CAT4 DL speeds on real live Ericsson back bones. Proud to say again that I was the one who coded all the demos in various technologies.</p> <p>Finally by March, one of a long standing issue in the projects was resolved! I also started representing Ericsson in MIPI Software Working Group (SWG) simultaneously chairing a community of practice (COP) for Logging in Ericsson modems. And finally, Ericsson released the Samsung products with M7450 (Mega II, Note 4 and some more models) in various markets! Proud to say again that I was involved with the “Bridge” bring-up project back in April 2013 when the project was being evaluated.</p> <p>We had some pretty interesting projects going on with various AP vendors in the whole world. Finally “Bridge” was getting the acceptance it should have got a long time ago. Also BMOD was finally investing in running Linux on the DCPU! On the personal front, we had a nice trip across Switzerland and Italy with my cousin brother and his wife. On the other part, I was for the first time robbed of my wallet in Switzerland! Lost a lot of hard earned dough and learned a lot from that incident.</p> <p>But that is as far as the good news goes! The bad part was the decision by Ericsson to shutdown/get out of the modems business. I lost a lot of my good friends in the process. To tell the truth, it does feel as if I have joined a new company! The field of work is different, technology is different, people are different and business is different. I also let go of a very wonderful opportunity in London which I had to let go because of family reasons!</p> <p>On the plus front, I have now finally enrolled in a Swedish course and am trying to improve on it with all my heart! Also am looking forward to some more exciting stuff to happen this year which I am yet to disclose ;).</p>
