+++
date = "2016-11-15T13:59:33+01:00"
draft = false
title = "Forgot your EXCEL Password?"
categories = ["Basic"]
slug = "3380"
+++

Okay. It is a bit sneaky and I will not explain everything but if by any chance you are using Excel and are password protecting the sheets and if you forget what your password was, “You are dead… ;)”. NOT REALLY! Use the following VBA script to recover the password. No need to download any softwares. Just press Alt+F11, put in the code and run it. It will soon pop up a box with the actual password which you can use to unlock.

ENJOY!

PS: I found the code on the internet in one of the comments and have just copied it blatantly. I have used it and it works great.
<pre>Sub PasswordBreaker()
    'Breaks worksheet password protection.
    Dim i As Integer, j As Integer, k As Integer
    Dim l As Integer, m As Integer, n As Integer
    Dim i1 As Integer, i2 As Integer, i3 As Integer
    Dim i4 As Integer, i5 As Integer, i6 As Integer
    On Error Resume Next
    For i = 65 To 66: For j = 65 To 66: For k = 65 To 66
    For l = 65 To 66: For m = 65 To 66: For i1 = 65 To 66
    For i2 = 65 To 66: For i3 = 65 To 66: For i4 = 65 To 66
    For i5 = 65 To 66: For i6 = 65 To 66: For n = 32 To 126
    ActiveSheet.Unprotect Chr(i) &amp; Chr(j) &amp; Chr(k) &amp; _
        Chr(l) &amp; Chr(m) &amp; Chr(i1) &amp; Chr(i2) &amp; Chr(i3) &amp; _
        Chr(i4) &amp; Chr(i5) &amp; Chr(i6) &amp; Chr(n)
    If ActiveSheet.ProtectContents = False Then
        MsgBox "One usable password is " &amp; Chr(i) &amp; Chr(j) &amp; _
            Chr(k) &amp; Chr(l) &amp; Chr(m) &amp; Chr(i1) &amp; Chr(i2) &amp; _
            Chr(i3) &amp; Chr(i4) &amp; Chr(i5) &amp; Chr(i6) &amp; Chr(n)
         Exit Sub
    End If
    Next: Next: Next: Next: Next: Next
    Next: Next: Next: Next: Next: Next
End Sub</pre>
