+++
date = "2009-05-31T17:14:12+02:00"
draft = false
title = "My Resume"
slug = "96"
+++

<p align="CENTER"><span style="font-size: medium;"><em><strong>Naresh Mehta</strong></em></span></p>
<p style="text-align: center;" align="CENTER">Web: http://www.naresh.se/
LinkedIn: http://se.linkedin.com/in/nareshmehta

<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Executive Profile</strong></em></p>
5 plus years of experience within Sales & Marketing as a Sr. Product Manager responsible for technical marketing, strategic relationship maintenance and customer project setups, customer/partner/operator RFI/RFQ communication, planning & executing pre-sales and sales activities and collaboration with technical and sales teams for successful product completion and launch. In all, over a decade of experience in system analysis, architecture and design, product & project management, strategic planning, customer relations, product marketing, and development in embedded and real time computing, object oriented technologies, telecommunications and open source software.
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Career Achievements</strong></em></p>

<table width="603" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="7">
<colgroup>
<col width="5" />
<col width="570" /> </colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Strategic relationship maintenance with partners and customers like Nokia, nVidia, TI, Intel, HTC, LGE, Huawei, Samsung, ZTE, etc.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Design technical roadmaps and product configurations for Smartphone Architectures using Open OS like Android, Maemo, MeeGo, etc.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Propose and implement architecture and design for “Bridge” platforms for both smartphones and modules using the Ericsson Modems.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Identified new and innovative architectural approaches to lessen code size/footprint and enhance runtime performance.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Designed &amp; implemented byte-aligned "Low Footprint Communications Protocol" with recovery mechanism to replace ASN.1 in C-SAM Inc products.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Developed and refined ability of project members to estimate and maintain completion times for tasks. Achieved 95% on-time completion rate for project tasks and successfully delivered a feature phone for Sagem Inc.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Application &amp; Framework development in OSE (Successful launch of Sagem 3G phones on EMP U250 platform including clamshell models with dual displays).</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">PKI/PKCS implementation on Windows Mobile &amp; Symbian, IMPS Client development confirming to OMA 1.2 &amp; WV 1.1, Windows (PPC2002/WinCE 3.0) &amp; Linux (2.6.x) driver development.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Qualification Highlights</strong></em></p>

<table width="603" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="7">
<colgroup>
<col width="5" />
<col width="570" /> </colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Experience working with a wide range of customers on various projects across the globe.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Experience with support activities like resource, delivery and contract management, technical/customer trainings, pre/post sales activities, customer projects, prioritization & scope management, scheduling, etc.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Well conversant with multiple programming methodologies and techniques on major operating systems.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Worked with standards such as ASN.1, OMA 1.2, WV 1.1, PKI &amp; PKCS, etc.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Excellent professional and academic track-record and earned experience working with multinationals ranging from startups to well established corporations.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Solid team builder and player with high degree of motivation, adaptability, communication skills and team spirit.</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Managed a team of 40 people with on-time project deliveries according to specifications and expectations.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Professional Background</strong></em></p>
Developer Job Stage 7 (Advanced Engineer II) November 2012 to Present
<em>Ericsson AB Lund, Sweden
</em>My responsibilities include architectural analysis, design and implementation of SW running Linux/Android. Also responsible for Hardware bring-ups and modem integration for “Bridge” platforms working with APE baseports, kernel and user space MIS SW. I also regularly interface with customers and customer project organization looking into product architecture and design proposals as well as planning and release commitments. Also chairing COPL (Community of Practice Logging) within Ericsson and representing Ericsson in MIPI (Mobile Industry Processor Interface) SWG (Software Working Group).

Technical Product Manager September 2007 to October 2012
<em>Ericsson AB / ST-Ericsson AB Lund, Sweden
</em>Own and create product strategies and roadmaps for Windows Mobile, Android, Symbian and MeeGo operating systems. Maintain relationship with partner companies and executing functions for joint marketing/promotion of products. Plan & execute pre-sales/sales activities and enhance product portfolio to produce interesting product offerings across multiple market segments and various product domains. Streamline requirements by interacting with the market, customers, trends and ecosystems. Startup projects with customers and handle the delivery plans till a successful bring up on customer HW and handing it over to CS for full execution. RFI/RFQ communication, delivery planning and follow-up, feature phasing, product planning, etc. were also part of the job.

Project Leader April 2004 to August 2007
<em>Fortuna Technologies (Tieto India) Hyderabad, India
</em>Lead and manage a team of testers and developers for the development and delivery of application suite on 3G devices on EMP platform. My responsibilities also included system SW architecture, design and implementation as well as communication with customers/stakeholders regarding the project deliveries and schedules, alignment of deliveries with customer expectations and timely problem resolutions.

Software Engineer September 2003 to March 2004
<em>Ruksun Technologies Pune, India
</em>

Software Engineer March 2002 to August 2003
<em>PopNet Technologies (C-SAM Inc) Baroda, India
</em>My responsibilities included system study, requirements analysis, architecture, design and implementation of applications using OO methodologies for real-time, low latency and resource constrained environments like mobiles, POS terminals, etc. I was also a part of MPF (Mobile Payment Forum) and was actively involved with architecture and system design for IrFM client-server communication scenarios and application development.
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Education</strong></em></p>
Bachelor of Science, Instrumentation &amp; Control Systems 1999
<em>M S University of Baroda Baroda, India</em>

Master of Science, Computer Applications 2002
<em>M S University of Baroda Baroda, India</em>
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Specialized Training</strong></em></p>

<table width="603" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="7">
<colgroup>
<col width="5" />
<col width="570" /> </colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">SCRUM for Product Owners Nohau Solutions AB</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Product Management function Ways of Working Consultus AB</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Understanding the Product Management function Consultus AB</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">CDM &amp; FIDO Traning Ericsson Internal</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">
<p lang="sv-SE">Cleared SFI Level D, Svenska för Invandrare Nivå D</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Achieved 63.4% in Introduction to Artificial Intelligence course by Peter Norvig &amp; Sebastian Thrun</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Management for a Competitive Edge by ICMS, Sydney, 100% score (http://www.open2study.com/)</td>
</tr>
<tr valign="TOP">
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="5">•</td>
<td bgcolor="#ffffff" width="570">Principles of Project Management (PPM) by Polytechnic West, 100% score (http://www.open2study.com/)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Publications</strong></em></p>
• Maemo/MeeGo Projects, “Conference Manager” June 2010. Conference Manager for Maemo/MeeGo allows for hosting/joining any global teleconferencing system at the touch of a button with support for multiple profiles licensed under GPL hosted at:  http://garage.maemo.org/projects/confmgr/

• Android Applications like Conference Manager, Auto On-Off, SMSBiljett (free &amp; paid versions) on Android Market at https://market.android.com/search?q=wolverine2k&amp;c=apps&amp;hl=en (All applications are &gt; 4 stars)

• Modification of open source cntlm proxy to support basic auth (GPL licensing). Code available at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10446079#post10446079

• Open source contributor to oFono (http://ofono.org) and a host of other projects. Visit my various repositories at https://github.com/wolverine2k and https://bitbucket.org/wolverine2k

• Marketing/Technical articles, code samples and analysis on my blog at http://www.naresh.se/
<p align="CENTER"><em><strong>Technical Expertise</strong></em></p>
<em>Operating Systems
</em>Windows, Linux, Maemo/MeeGo, EMP/OSE, Windows CE, MS-DOS, Symbian

<em>Programming Languages
</em>C/Objective C, C++, Java, QT, EPOC / Symbian C++, Visual C++/MFC, Visual Basic, Visual C#, QBASIC, 8085/x86 Assembly, Smali

<em>SW Design Methodologies and tools
</em>Scrum/Agile methodologies, RUP, DR Model, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Embedded Visual Tools, Rational Rose Enterprise Tools, Code Warrior, Arm Developer Suite, StarUML, Enterprise Architect

<em>Project/Requirement Management Tools
</em>Microsoft Project, Version 1, FocalPoint, Excel, FreeMind, DOORS, Requisite Pro

<em>Technologies &amp; Standards
</em>UML, JTAG, TCP/IP, COM, ATL, ASN.1, WV 1.1, OMA 1.2, IrDA stack, ECML, BHO, PKI, Nokia WAP Toolkit, UIQ 2.0, Series60 and Communicators, WAP
